---
layout: default
title: Personal introductions, team overviews, intro to peer-observation program (23 Sep 2022)
parent: GAA team meetings
nav_order: 8
---
## 'All GAAs' meeting, 2022-09-23

First of three 'All GAAs' meetings this term. Next meeting likely in December. Final meeting likely in April.

**ACTION ITEM** (student employees): Send bio information and picture to Angela for posting on Research Commons' website
**ACTION ITEM** (Evan): Connect with Lily at a future date to discuss career opportunities for GIS/map work within libraries and skillset required

### Attendees:
- Angela Liu
- Ashley Yue Mao
- Bamidele Oladipupo
- Brett Dimond
- Doug Brigham
- Eugene Barsky
- Jeremy Buhler
- Jess Yao
- Joe Melanson
- Keith Bunnell
- Lily Crandall-Oral
- Reza Karimi
- Scott Cameron

### Agenda:
- General welcome (Doug)
- Introductions (everyone)
- Purpose/activities/scope of each team (Team Leads)
- Peer observation of instruction (Jeremy and Jess)
- Advice from continuing GAAs to newcomers (Reza and Lily)
- Roundtable question: What is something you hope to learn or a skill you would like to develop during your work at the Research Commons? (everyone)

#### General welcome (Doug)
- Looking to integrate service offerings between Research Commons (RC) and Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS)
- HSS Student Librarians will comprise the 6th team

#### Introductions (everyone)

**Jess**: Digital Scholarship (DS) Librarian

**Keith**: Reference and Collections Librarian

**Jeremy**: Data Librarian
- Helps researchers access data

**Joe**: HSS Librarian and Citation Management (CM) Team Lead

**Eugene**: RDM Librarian
- Works closely with Jeremy around data needs of patrons

**Brett**: RC Program Assistant
- Ensures access and use of RC spaces
- Provides backup for Angela for certain functions
- Works with Data Team

**Angela**: RC Coordinator
- Works with Brett to ensure facilities run smoothly
- Responsible for communications/promotions

**Reza**: 5th-year PhD student
- Citation Management Team

**Scott**: 2nd-year dual student
- HSS Student Librarian

**Bamidele**: 3rd semester at iSchool
- Works with Keith as HSS Student Librarian

**Ashley**: 4th-year PhD student
- Works on Data Team in quantitative data analysis and visualization

**Lily**: 2nd-year Masters student
- Geospatial Information and Technology (GIT) team

**Jared** (not present): Data Team

**Shayan** (not present): DS Team

**Billie** (not present): RDM GAA working with Eugene
- Will not be present during fall term, but will return in Jan
- Profile on RC website

2nd GAA for GIT Team soon to be hired.

#### Purpose/activities/scope of each team (Team Leads)

**Data Team** (Jeremy):
- Historically, have seen a high demand for consultations
- Will only be focusing on quantitative data analysis and visualization this term
- Primarily support data analysis with the R programming language, with limited support for Python and SPSS
- This term will include a set of 4 workshops--with Ashley hosting the first one on Tuesday of next week ('Introduction to R and RStudio')

**DS Team** (Jess):
- Digital Scholarship is an umbrella term which covers any research applying computational tools
- Tools the team generally supports: Git, GitHub, Unix Shell, Docker, Visual Studio Code

**CM Team** (Joe):
- Conduct both workshops and consulations
- Recent work has involved supporting patrons in migrating from RefWorks to another CM tool; UBC Library will no longer support RefWorks after 30 Sep 2022
- Zotero and Mendeley--both freely available--are primary tools we support

**RDM Team** (Eugene):
- Provide Research Data Management consultations for researchers and faculty
- Collaborate with other units on workshops, such as with WestGrid on today's workshop 'Automation and scripting in Bash for absolute beginners'
- RDM website: https://researchdata.library.ubc.ca/

**Reference Team** (Keith):
- Scott and Bamidele will be providing reference support for 6-8 hours per week

#### Peer observation of instruction (Jeremy and Jess)
- Explainer: https://ubc-library-rc.github.io/rc-docs/docs/gaaonboarding/peer_observation.html
- Started last spring
- Plan to run once in fall and once in spring
- Required for continuing GAAs; new GAAs can participate if they would like to, but should inform their Team Leads
- There is a peer-observation sign-up spreadsheet; place your name in 'Observer' column
- The sooner you enter your name, the more options you will have
- When connecting with another GAA, we encourage finding someone from another team; teams will be discussing instruction internally
- Discuss the form of feedback your partner might be interested in and whether they are looking for specific feedback
- Team Leads will coordinate sign-up, likely via email

**Reza**: This can also be viewed as a professional-development opportunity from more than one angle; I observed Amir and Jeremy during an NVivo workshop because, in addition, to learning from their instructional methods, I also wanted to learn more about NVivo

**Keith**: I suggest leaving this until next term for Bamidele and Scott

**Angela**: Of course, you are always welcomed to attend each others' workshops, even when not participating in peer observation

#### Advice from continuing GAAs to newcomers (Reza and Lily)

**Lily**: One thing I enjoy about this position is its flexibility and the opportunity to work on different tasks
- I engage in one-on-one consults, lead workshops, and participate in a project creating a spatial index
- This is a work-learn position; talk to your supervisor about what you'd like to get out of it

**Jeremy**: I'd like to reinforce Lily's point; while we can't guarantee we'll be able to accommodate every request, don't be shy about suggesting new workshop topics, projects, etc.

**Reza**: This position provides a great opportunity to practice your presentation skills
- Its flexibility is a great advantage
- Learn from your own mistakes (e.g., something not working with a certain OS); will require regular updating of workshop material
- During consultations, don't be afraid to say you don't know the answer to something--you're not expected to know everything; instead, try to troubleshoot with the patron

**Angela**: I want to emphasize your work is very helpful to the Library and will live on for quite some time
- We are always open to feedback on how things might be improved

#### Roundtable question: What is something you hope to learn or a skill you would like to develop during your work at the Research Commons? (everyone)

**Bamidele**: Interested in opportunities to develop skills working with data and metadata

**Eugene**: Bamidele, a good place to start could be learning some markdown language

**Scott**: Interested in developing instructional skills, especially keeping people engaged

**Keith**: There are opportunities for instruction, such as informational sessions

**Ashley**: Interested in developing instructional skills
- Has participated in lots of classroom observations, but has had few opportunities to teach herself
- Interested in developing a network of colleagues and staying connected with people

**Jess**: For those interested in improving their instruction, I found the Instructional Skills Workshop (ISW) at UBC to be helpful while I was a graduate student: https://ctlt.ubc.ca/programs/all-our-programs/instructional-skills-workshops/

**Reza**: Interested in working to adjust his pace during instruction, as every session is different

**Lily**: Interested in learning more about what jobs for GIS and mappers there are in libraries, and what skillset is required for that kind of work

**Angela**: Lily, we'll connect you with Evan on this issue
